---
layout: post
title: Week 7
subtitle: Integrating the Training System and Web App, Debugging Gesture Development
tags: [weekly]
---

## Updates:
---

### Facial Recognition: (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
TODO

### Mobile Application: Updates (Brandon)
TODO

### Gesture Control (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
We have received the Hover sensor and have attempted to integrate it into our system. Unfortunately, after hours of debugging and testing, we have been unable to get any gesture signals back from the sensors. Problems that we have already hypothesized and attempted to fix include incorrectly configured I2C drivers, lack of support for 'repeated starts' in the RaspPi3's I2C drivers, and faulty wires/wiring. Thus, we have concluded that it is the sensor itself that is broken. We have composed and sent an e-mail to the creators of the Hover sensor, and we are hoping that they will be able to assist us.

### Smart Mirror ON/OFF Protocol (Brad)
No Updates

### Smart Mirror Frame (Ryan, Kurtis, Brandon, Brad)
We were able to measure out the dimensions needed for the acrylic frame on Thursday. The next day, we picked it up from TAP Plastics and is at our workstation. Our hope is that the film, when placed on the acrylic frame, will allow us clear visibility of the monitor placed underneath. We will need to apply the film using some kind of light-soap solution.

<br>
## Next Steps:
---

### Facial Recognition: (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
TODO

### Mobile Application: (Brandon)
TODO

### Gesture Control: (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
We suspect that our Hover sensor is broken and unfortunately, we will probably not have enough time to wait for another one. Thus, because we really only need just one type of user input (to start training), we are planning to just implement a simple button attached to a GPIO. We have already implemented a button module that we are currently using to interface our Web App and Mirror. We are planning to use this same module for this purpose as well.

### Smart Mirror ON/OFF Protocol (Brad)
Our group still needs to tweak the protocol so that the mirror turns on and off for appropriate distances and time. Also, we will need to implement a way for the proximity sensor module to run while the mirror is in the idle state. We plan to use CEC protocol to toggle the monitor ON/OFF through HDMI.

### Smart Mirror Frame (Ryan, Kurtis, Brandon, Brad)
TODO
