---
layout: post
title: Week 3
subtitle: Research and Planning
tags: [weekly]
---

## Updates
Our team decided to work on a Smart Mirror for our capstone project. A smart mirror is a mirror with an LCD display behind it than can project useful information to the user, such as the weather, time, bus routes, or even a to-do list. We are inspired by the numerous possiblities this platform can support, which gives us a lot of freedom for creativity in this project. Our focus will be on implementing facial recognition and a mobile application that is integrated with our mirror.

**Status:** Waiting on hardware to start development of Smart Mirror features. Currently doing research on how to implement our desired features.

**Plan:** Meeting set for Tuesday 5 PM to meet with a Computer Vision expert for advice, development can start once we receive the hardware

---
## Development Updates

### Facial Recognition (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
We received our [camera](https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/B00VFQK1Q6/ref=ya_st_dp_summary) and were able to begin with the facial recognition implementation. First we installed the our dependencies onto the Raspberry Pi 3.
Here are the dependencies needed:
* [python-shell](https://www.npmjs.com/package/python-shell) - Needed to run Python scripts from Node.js. Our Smart Mirror OS uses Node.js so we use it here to run our OpenCV Python based scripts.
{% highlight bash %}
npm install
{% endhighlight %}
* [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) - The computer vision library we will use for face recognition.
{% highlight bash %}
sudo apt-get install libopencv-dev python-opencv
{% endhighlight %}
Install these from the command line by using:

### Mobile Application (Brandon)
We also want to integrate a phone application that can be used in conjunction with the mirror. The phone application could be used for all kinds of user interaction, such as setting up the layout of the mirror. We are also looking into more advanced features that the phone application could support, such as dual display or swiping gestures to push the phone contents to the mirror. 

### Gesture Control
We are considering some kind of gesture control to navigate the mirror. Our mirror is not a touch screen, and frankly we wouldn't want it to be since it would just get smudged up by finger prints. Using the camera to detect simple gesture movements would be ideal, but we are also looking into using a standalone gesture interpreter such as the [Hover](www.hoverlabs.co/products/hover/).

### Smart Mirror ON/OFF Protocol
1. Smart Mirror is currently in OFF state, camera waits for movements
2. Smart Mirror detects movement and turns ON, waits to recognize a face
3. Face is recognized, and if a matching profile was saved, it is loaded; otherwise, a default profile is loaded
4. User may now view information displayed on the mirror
5. Face leaves view of the camera, there will be a buffer time of ~30 seconds before the mirror automatically goes back to its OFF state

--- 

## Next steps
This week we are ordering a camera so we can begin implementing the computer vision features for our mirror. The other parts are not as time critical to our design, but we will also order the rest of the materials as soon as possible.

Here is a breakdown of what we are individually researching this week:
* Brandon: Web application
* Brad: Facial recognition
* Ryan: Facial recognition
* Kurtis: Gesture control / Facial recognition
