---
layout: post
title: Week 2
subtitle: Research
tags: [weekly]
---

Our team decided to work on a Smart Mirror for our capstone project. A smart mirror is a mirror with an LCD display behind it than can project useful information to the user, such as the weather, time, bus routes, or even a to-do list. We are inspired by the numerous possiblities this platform can support, which gives us a lot of freedom for creativity in this project. Our focus will be on implementing facial recognition and a mobile application that is integrated with our mirror.

### Facial Recognition
To make the mirror even 'smarter', we are going to incorporate a computer vision element into the design. By using a camera for facial recognition we can identify the specific person standing in front of the mirror and load their own custom profile.

Currently we are looking into the [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) framework to help us obtain accurate facial recognition. [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) is an Open Source Computer Vision library that is well supported and documented, which makes it perfect for our needs. Soon we are meeting with a referral to get some advice on this computer vision component of our design. Hopefully we can get also some advice on a camera, so we can order that as soon as possible.

### Mobile Application
We also want to integrate a phone application that can be used in conjunction with the mirror. The phone application could be used for all kinds of user interaction, such as setting up the layout of the mirror. We are also looking into more advanced features that the phone application could support, such as dual display or swiping gestures to push the phone contents to the mirror. 

### Gesture Control
Last but not least we are considering some kind of gesture control to navigate the mirror. Our mirror is not a touch screen, and frankly we wouldn't want it to be since it would just get smudged up by finger prints. Using the camera to detect simple gesture movements would be ideal, but we are also looking into using a standalone gesture interpreter such as the [Hover](www.hoverlabs.co/products/hover/).
