---
layout: post
title: Week 6
subtitle: Face detection woes, web app progress, implementing the new gesture sensor
tags: [weekly]
---

## Updates:
---

### Facial Recognition: (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
Last week we thought we fixed our main face detection issue. The issue was that a stranger standing in front of the mirror gave us a false positive and identified them as an existing user. The mirror seemed to work with a few of the strangers we tested, but of course when we tried to demo it to the TA's it gave us false positives again. We need to improve this so that we can pass our mother of all demos, which involves setting a stranger up with a new profile.
So far we have tried adjusting thresholds and including more negative photos to avoid false positives, but we still aren't getting consistently good results.

The other aspect of the face recognition is the training procedure itself. Currently, to train the data you need to run commands on the terminal to activate python scripts. We would like the user to have the ability to set up the training by interacting with the mirror itself through a touch sensor. Currently we are writing python scripts to automate this process. The tough part is integrating these python scripts with the node.js server that is running our smart mirror application. To accomplish this we are looking into the [python-shell](https://www.npmjs.com/package/python-shell) package. So far the script is able to capture the necessary images, but next we need to automate the processing these images.

### Mobile Application: Updates (Brandon)
TODO

### Smart Mirror Frame (Ryan, Kurtis, Brandon, Brad)
We brought in our two-way mirror film and held it over the screen to see how the film looked. Honestly, the results do not look amazing because if the film is not perfectly flat, the mirror looks distorted. There isn't really another option here because real glass or acrylic two way mirrors are way too expensive for this project. 

<br>
## Next Steps:
---

### Facial Recognition: (Ryan, Kurtis, Brad)
We still need to troubleshoot why strangers are being recognized as false positives. There are so many variables on what could cause the issue- busy background, lighting changes, negative image issues, etc. We just need to start testing possible issues and narrowing down the cause.

Next week we will work on finalizing the training protocol and hopefully will start including visual feedback to the user during this process.

### Mobile Application: (Brandon)
TODO

### Smart Mirror Frame (Brad)
Next week we are ordering the acrylic and will apply the mirror film to it. Hopefully the results are good!
